one of the most important metrics that
you need to monitor in your google ads
campaign is your cpc how much you are
paying for each click and the reason is
simple the lower the cost that you can
pay for each click means that you have
more of your important marketing budget
to be able to spend to get more clicks
and potentially get more customers and
more sales if you save 10 on your
average cost per click in a month it
means that you have an extra 10
of marketing budget to be able to drive
more sales and conversions my name is
aaron young and i'm your 15 000 google
ads master and in today's video i'm
going to show you three simple
optimizations that you can add into your
google ads account from today to start
lowering your cpc let's go okay let's
look at a real life example here what i
want to show you is the results that we
got over a 60-day period of adding in
some extra optimizations so first you
can see here with our cost per click
this started up at 5.72 cents and we
were able to bring it down to 4.44
throughout that same time we got this
click-through ratio which started at
8.93
and we took it up to
11.38 but probably what's more important
here is if you look at this conversion
data we've got the conversion data from
just under 40. 39.55
all the way down to 21.27
and obviously at that same time we saw a
really strong growth in our conversion
rate from 14.46 all the way up to over
20 at 20.89
before i take you through the exact
steps that we took in order to lower the
cpc and improve the overall account
performance you need to firstly
understand the factors that affect your
cpc now as you're probably aware google
ads is based on an auction which is
focused on keywords so when you search
for a keyword you will see a selection
of ads from businesses who are bidding
on the same keyword so as you can see in
this example we've got a collection of
businesses who are all bidding on the
search term swimming lessons for kids
now the good news is is that in google
ads the highest bid does not always win
and this is because google uses a
formula to calculate the winning or the
number one position and the formula is
your max cpc bid so the maximum amount
that you're willing to pay times by your
quality score and then this gives you an
ad rank and the reason why google uses
this formula is because their goal is to
match highly relevant ads and websites
to the user's search and query so google
isn't only focused on who is willing to
pay the most money as google's main goal
is to match highly relevant ads and
websites for the user so don't be filled
into thinking that the way that you win
a google ads auction is by being willing
to pay the most amount of money because
the most important thing in a google ads
auction is your ad rank so apart from
your bids the amount you're willing to
pay other factors that affect your ad
rank are the relevance of your ad to the
search query the relevance of your ad to
your landing page and the historical
click-through ratio or ctr of your ads
so let's put this in a simple example
you are willing to pay two dollars for
your ad targeting women's summer dresses
and your ads have a click-through ratio
of 12 but your competitor is willing to
pay five dollars for the ad targeting
women's summer dresses but they only
have a click-through ratio of three
percent so who would the winner be you
or your competitor the great news is is
that you would win the auction as google
would prefer a 12 chance of two dollars
rather than only having a three percent
chance of five dollars the reason why
google would prefer your ad with a 12
click-through ratio versus your
competitor who has a 3 click-through
ratio is quite simple even though your
competitor is prepared to pay more than
you for every 100 searches google is far
more likely to earn more money from your
ads let's break it down with a 12
click-through ratio that means google
will get on average 12 clicks for every
100 searches giving them twenty four
dollars twelve percent click-through
ratio off your two dollar bid versus
your competitor even though they're
willing to pay five dollars per click
with a three percent click-through ratio
that means that they're only likely to
get three clicks out of a hundred
searches giving them only fifteen
dollars so even though your max cpc is
less than half of your competitors
google will actually earn on average
nine dollars more through showing your
ads so this is an amazing opportunity
for you as a business owner to make sure
that your campaign is giving google
exactly what it wants of matching highly
relevant ads with the users search terms
so that you can actually pay less money
get better results and more clicks with
your marketing budget so now that we
know the factors that affect your cpc
let's go through those three steps that
you can implement into your account so
that you can lower your cpc and the
first thing is that you need to increase
your keyword quality score to check your
keyword quality score in your campaigns
tab you want to go into search keywords
and if you don't see this quality score
column you can go into columns modify
columns search your quality score and
then you can add this into your list of
columns the goal here with your quality
score is to have your quality score at
least 8 out of 10. ideally the goal is
10 and as you can see through here we've
got the majority of our keywords already
up at that 10 out of 10 score now with
your quality score it is important to
note that if you have a quality score of
under three you will actually see a
status warning in here which will
actually tell you that your ads are not
eligible to appear so if you find that
you have a quality score which is under
seven out of ten so a five out of ten or
a six out of ten what you actually need
to do is you need to do two things first
you want to go to your ads and you want
to make sure that you're mentioning the
keyword in your headline and in your
description so for this campaign we're
targeting skip bin hire so you can see
we've got it mentioned in our headlines
and we've also got it mentioned in our
description once again for this ad we've
got skip in higher mentioned in their
headlines and we've also once again got
it mentioned in our descriptions and the
second thing you then need to check is
you need to actually check the landing
page and for this campaign you can see
that once again we have highly relevant
information about skip bin hire it's
mentioned here in the titles and then
also in our content as you go down the
page you can see time and time again
that it's very clear that this page is
about skip bins so as a wrap up the
first thing you need to do to lower your
cost per click is you need to come in
and check your search keywords making
sure that you have a quality score of at
least an 8 out of 10 a 9 out of 10 or a
10 out of 10 with obviously the goal
being 10 out of 10. hey before we get to
our next point can you please quickly
like this video and subscribe to my
channel this makes sure that i can keep
creating this free content so that you
can improve your google ads campaigns
let's get back into the training the
second thing that you want to do in
order to lower your cost per click is
you want to update your keyword match
types to phrase an exact match however i
do want to stress that for the first 30
or 60 days of your campaign i would
recommend using the broad match type for
your keywords and in this first 30 or 60
days you want to be doing a search term
audit every three or four days now to do
your search term audits you're going
into your search terms and then what
this is showing is this is showing the
exact search queries that a user used in
order for your ads to show and as we go
through this list we want to be doing
two things firstly we want to be
checking and adding in negative keywords
for any irrelevant keywords and then
secondly for any keywords that convert
we want to actually be going through and
adding them in as a phrase match or an
exact match so we just click on those
keywords which have converted and then
we want to add them as new keywords to
your campaign it is important to note
that very recently google has actually
just updated what a broad match a phrase
match an exact match keyword actually is
so now rather than matching the words
that you've got in those phrases it
actually matches the meaning of those
keyword phrases so for example in this
account even if we had the exact match
keyword of brisbane skip bin hire our
ads would still trigger and appear for
searches which say waste bin higher and
the reason for that is that google sees
that skip being higher and waistband
higher actually had the same meaning so
in the event that you actually want to
filter out search terms in that example
you actually need to go through and
physically add those similar meaning
keywords as a negative keyword i
explained this change more fully in my
video google ads in 2022 and what i'll
do is i'll leave a link in the
description so that you can watch that
after you finish watching this video and
the third and final thing that you can
do to lower your cpc is to actually use
the keyword insertion feature in your
google ads ad copy and this is a feature
that you can use which automatically
updates your ads with the search query
that the search user used in order to
trigger your ad to use the keyword
insertion feature you need to go into
one of your ads and you can see here
that we're using this keyword insertion
feature in headline one to use this
feature in the headline you need to type
a brace or the squiggly bracket then you
select keyword insertion and then from
there it's just a matter of copying in
the actual search term that you want to
use so for this example we're going to
use skip bin hire north brisbane and
then this is how your ad would actually
appear in the search term so you can see
here when we've typed in skip in higher
north brisbane you can see that our ad
has actually automatically updated to
show skip in higher north brisbane so
the benefits of using this keyword
insertion in your ad copy is twofold one
you can see from here that the user is
more likely to click on your ad because
your headline actually matches the
actual search query that they typed into
google and the second reason is is that
google will actually bold the elements
of your headline which match the user's
search and query so by using the keyword
insertion feature on your ads you're
getting a double benefit of increasing
your ads relevancy but also remembering
that google will bold the elements of
your ad which match the user's search
enquiry so as a wrap up if you want to
lower your cpc you need to take those
three actions and start implementing
them into your account today remember
you need to improve your quality score
use those phrase and exact match types
when possible and also start using
keyword insertion in your ads why don't
you leave a comment right now and tell
me which one of those three suggestions
you like the most as you can see having
a very clear optimization strategy for
your google ads campaign can make the
world of difference not only to your cpc
but also to your conversion rates the
number of conversions you get and
ultimately your acquisition rate and
that's why i put together my free google
ads optimization checklist this is a
checklist that i still use today and it
lets you know exactly what you need to
optimize every week every month and
every 90 days why don't you get your
checklist right now by following the
link below and i've also placed it in
the description for you thank you again
for watching my teaching hey you may
remember in point two i spoke about the
changes to match types that google has
just recently rolled out if you want to
find out more information about that why
don't you watch this video right here